Thank you so much for attending my PowerPoint presentation on how to counter every support in Overwatch. Most people think that Overwatch is all about countering the tank, but in reality, countering the enemy supports can often be 10 times more effective. That's why in today's video, we're going to go over the core problem each support presents and the exact things you need to do to completely shut them down. I'll give you some specific heroes that counter each support, but every game and team composition is different. So, try to pay attention to the philosophy behind why some heroes counter others. Nothing feels worse than lining up the perfect ultimate and then all of a sudden you're taking a nap. Or maybe you've watched your entire team's health bars turn purple knowing you're all about to die. The biggest problem Anna presents is her biotic nade, which completely stops all healing, and her nano boost, which turns one enemy into a superpowered, hard-to- monster. She can shut down your team's sustain or create a huge threat out of nowhere, all from the safety of her own backline. The solution is to exploit her biggest weakness. She has zero mobility. She can't run, she can't jump, she can't fly. This makes her super vulnerable to dive heroes. You need to send someone to go visit her and you need to do it aggressively. Mobile tanks are a problem for her. A Winston can jump on her, drop his bubble, and cut her off from her team. And that's usually the end of the story. Div.A is even better because her defense matrix just deletes everything Anna wants to do. She can fly right up to the Anna and just absorb the sleep dart and biotic grenade. DPS players, your job is to flank. A Sombra hack disables every single one of her tools, which usually gets her killed. Even long range snipers can work because Anna needs line of sight. She's often standing out in the open which makes her an easy target for a Widowmaker or an Ash. And then the quintessential support counter is Kiri who can cleanse Nade and sleep with her Suzu. The game plan is to bait out her cooldowns. So get her to throw Nade and sleep and then use that window to kill her because she's basically helpless. That's the basic loop with Anna. Pressure her until she has no cool downs and then punish her immobility. Throw out your div.a a bomb. It's just about to go off and then you watch the drum appear. Suddenly, everyone you are about to kill is just chilling, not dying. The problem with Baptiste is his immortality field. It creates a zone where nobody can die. It also forces your team to dump all their damage into a tiny little lamp instead of the actual enemy team, and it's one of the most frustrating things in the game. The solution is to neutralize the lamp. It has a super long cool down, so once it's gone, Bap's team is wide open. The moment you see that thing deploy, it needs to be your number one priority. Everyone shoots the lamp. Tanks like Div.A are great here because her micro missiles can shred it in an instant. She can use her defense matrix to eat all his healing grenades while your team cleans up the people who should be dead. You can also just knock people out of its range. A wrecking ball or a Doomfist can push the enemy right out of the lamp safe zone. An Orisa can just push them out as well, and it makes the lamp totally useless. However, this is a lot harder if Baptist takes that minor perk that makes the lamp size 30% bigger. On the DPS side, Sombra, of course, makes his life hard. Her EMP will instantly destroy the immortality field. A regular hack will also stop him from throwing it out in the first place. You can also just outrange it. A far can stay in the sky and use a concussive blast to boop people out of the circle. On the support side, Anna's biotic grenade is a great answer. If you anti-heal the targets in the lamp, they can't be healed up once it breaks. The pro strategy is to apply so much pressure to Bap that you force him to use his lamp early just to save himself. Once he does, you back off for a second, heal up, and then hard engage during that long cool down. So, you either kill the lamp or move the players. Either way, you're working around his one big ability. It is so annoying to be run down by a support who heals her whole team by running you down in the first place. The problem with Brig is her inspire passive. Every time she damages an enemy, she creates a healing aura around herself. So, as long as she's fighting, she's healing. This makes her very tough to kill in the brawl and gives her team a ton of value just because she's on the front line. It's also unintuitive. Many players understand what I just said, but they don't really understand it. They don't understand the range, nor what it means for her play style. But the solution is really simple. Just don't play her game. Her biggest weakness is her lack of range. If you stay outside of her flail's reach, she's almost useless. Heroes who do a lot of damage from a distance will just tear her apart. Junkrat can just lob grenades over walls and break her little barrier shield in seconds. Bastion can transform and melt her before she even gets close. And flyers like Far and Ekko are the worst for her. She literally cannot touch them. She basically has no way of dealing with them. They can just hover above her and rain down damage. As a support, Zenyatta is a great pick against her. he can put orb of discord on her and from across the map just kind of delete her. The general strategy is always to be breaking her shield. It's small, fragile, and once it's gone, she loses her shield bash, which is her only real movement or escape tool. Fight her in open areas, never in tight corridors where she can hit multiple people at once. Focus her from multiple angles, and she'll fold. Don't let her get close, but you should get close to that subscribe button and click on it for more videos just like this. There will be videos for countering tanks and DPS as well. Then we'll put them all together in one easy to watch video. So stay tuned for that. We're closing in on 100K subs. So, thank you guys so much for all the support over the I guess like 2 years this channel's been alive. And back to the video now. from a brawler to a long range menace. Let's talk about our next support. So, you're in a fight, you're winning a duel, you duck behind a corner to reload, and you die anyway. You watch the kill cam and you see some little pylon sitting on a roof halfway across the map has been healing the person you were fighting the entire time. It's awful. The problem with Aari is that her healing pylon is a fire and forget turret that gives her team constant automatic healing. This frees her up to focus entirely on doing damage with her solar rifle, which hits like a truck. She gets to be a DPS and a healer at the same time without much of a trade-off. The solution is, and I cannot stress this enough, kill the pylon. It's your number one priority. The pylon is a stationary destructible object. If you kill it, her healing output plummets because her own healing beam runs on a resource meter. Flankers are perfect for this job. Genji, Sombra, Tracer. Your job is to find that little thing and destroy it. Sombra can even just hack it to turn it off for a bit. Once the pylon is gone, you turn your attention to Yari herself. She'll try to escape with her outburst ability, but if you can bait that out, she's a free, easy kill. Dive tanks are again perfect for this. Div.A, Winston, Hazard, Wrecking Ball, Doomfist, just jump in, delete the pylon, and then start pressuring her. Div.A is an especially hard counter because her defense matrix can ultimate. This is also where Kirao comes in. If Yari does manage to hit your team with her ultimate, Kira Suzu can instantly cleanse it, which is a pretty big deal. So, the plan is simple. See the Pylon, kill the Pylon, then kill Uari. When it comes to heroes that need countering, Juno is pretty low on the list. Her biggest impact ability is Hyper Ring and I guess her ultimate. Hyper Ring can't easily be countered though, so it's really about killing Juno so she can't impact the fight. The problem Juno presents is she's able to reliably output great healing and acceptable damage. She has an ultimate that can turn a fight and the speed ring allows for some faster than expected dives. Because she's so mobile in the air, she can be a massive headache for projectile heroes to pin down, allowing her to stay alive just long enough to keep her team up. The solution is to treat her like a less dangerous Far. Juno is fast, but her movement is predictable once she commits to a glide. Hit scan is mandatory. If you're playing Junkrat into Juno, you're going to have a pretty hard time killing her. Cassidy and Ash are perfect for this. On the tank side, dive tanks are great. Juno's biggest weakness is her lack of self-healing, so when you isolate her, she's pretty much dead. For supports, Anna is your best bet. One sleep dart while Juno is mid- hover usually results in her falling into a pit or landing right in the middle of your team for an easy delete. Nade also counters half of Juno's alt, so there's that. Don't over complicate it, though. Be cautious of a quick dive using the ring. Wait for her to burn her hover and then click her head. She has no self-heal outside of the support passive, so any damage you stick on her stays there. Few things in Overwatch are as traumatizing as being kidnapped by that damn cat. Everyone hates playing against her, and for good reason. She's annoying and can feel unkillable. So, how do you deal with the cat? The problem with JPC is that she's tiny and mobile. She has a super small hitbox, but is also really fast. This combination makes fighting her a nightmare. All of the other shenanigans she enables can't really take place if she's constantly flying back from spawn. So, how do we make sure that happens? The way to counter her is to force her into cover where her biggest advantage, her mobility, can't get value. Similar to Far, applying consistent damage in her direction, forces her to play much more carefully. Cass is probably the easiest counter here. He can both put pressure on her from a distance and flashbanger if she tries to fly in for a kill. Moira is also a fantastic check here as her grasp has a generous hitbox that negates the small hitbox advantage JPC relies on. Broadly speaking, your best bet is hit scan though. Soldier 76 and sojun are much more reliable than a Widowmaker because they put out constant damage. Once you have a tactical visor, JPC is essentially a free kill. This is true for supports as well. Yari, Anna, Baptiste, all heroes who are ranged hit scan and can help apply pressure. While not guaranteed, something like a Mizuki chain can be effective as well if you think you can hit it. On the tank side, Road Hog is the bane of Jetpack Cat's existence. A well-timed hook is the only way to kidnap the kidnapper. Once she's pulled into the team, she's fragile enough to be deleted instantly. If hooks aren't your thing, though, Romatra's Ravenous Vortex is a must use. It pulls flying targets to the ground and slows them, stripping away her only real defense, her movement. At release, Suzu was probably the most annoying ability in all of Overwatch. Now, it's still pretty annoying, but we've all just gotten used to it. And Suzu is the problem. Suzu is an ability that saves her team from almost anything. It grants invulnerability and cleanses almost every negative effect, including stuns, anti-heal, and slows. It's on a long cooldown, but when it's available, it feels like nothing you do matters. The solution is to, of course, bait it out. You have to force Kirao to use it on something less important before you commit your real value. For example, you have your onenade and you throw it in. This is a huge threat and a good Kirao will almost always suzu it to cleanse it. The moment she does, you can call out no Suzu and this is your green light. Now you use your grab or your rampage and you have a window where her team is vulnerable, but you have to strike fast. I hope you can see the general theme here with countering supports. It's about finding a hero who can easily force out their resources so you can exploit the windows where they're vulnerable to times where they don't have their biggest tools available to them. As for counters, Winston is pretty much the gold standard. He can jump on her, drop his bubble, cutting her off from her team. Then she has to swift step away and Winston will have jump back to follow. Buying heroes like Far, Ekko, and Jetpack Cat can also be a pain for her because they can attack from angles where she doesn't have a teammate on the ground to teleport away from. And of course, Sombra. Hacking a Kirao is devastating. It takes away both her invincibility button and her escape button, leaving her completely exposed. But she can duel you, so you have to be careful. Hack also doesn't last that long, so you have to kill her quickly. But the key is to isolate her from her team. Her swift step is useless if there's no one to step to. This hero is an interesting case. He has one of the largest hitboxes in the support role. He does almost no damage and his most famous ability is just as likely to pull you out of a good play as it is to save you from a bad one. The problem with Lifew Weaver is that his utility can be disruptive. Pedal platform can lift an enemy out of position or block your shots. And lifegrip can rescue a target you are about to finish off. He's designed to reposition his allies and sometimes that's annoying. The solution is just shoot him. I'm not even kidding. He has a massive hitbox, weak damage output, and is a horrible duelist. He's an easy kill for almost any hero who decides to focus him. Even with all of his cooldowns up, for any hero that can keep up with his dash and pedal, like Genji, Tracer, or Wrecking Ball, he's dead. Dive tanks are very effective against him. Div.A can boost right into his face, absorb his thorn volley with her matrix, and eliminate him in seconds. Winston can leap on him and trap him in a bubble. He can't fight back at all. Hazard can climb a nearby wall to get onto his pedal. Doom wrecking ball. You get the picture. If you can get to him and follow him once he uses his tools, he just dies. Even if he uses pedal platform to go up, you can just follow him. A Widowmaker can pick him off easily because of how big he is and how often he stands still to charge his healing. The strategy is to just dive him relentlessly. Force him to use his cooldowns to save himself and then he's an easy kill. Do not let him sit in the backline being a utility bot. Make him the first target and he'll crumble. But if life basically stands still, how do you deal with a hero who never stops moving? Trying to kill a good Lucio is insanely frustrating, much like trying to kill a good jetpack cat. He's wall riding. He's booping you off the map. He's speeding his entire team around, all while he's passively healing everyone just by being there. He's slippery, annoying, and can feel almost impossible to pin down. The problem is his mobility and his speed boost. The ability to make his entire team faster is a huge advantage. It lets them initiate fights, chase down kills, or retreat to safety way more effectively than your team can. and his wall ride makes him an incredibly difficult target to hit. The solution is to stop his movement. Crowd control completely shuts him down, and unlike Jetack Cat, he'll often be in range of that crowd control. Anything that stuns, slows, or roots him negates his primary advantage. May is the classic hard counter. Her primary fire slows him down until he's just walking, making him an easy target for an icicle headshot. Cass's flashbang will stop him. Raatra's rapist vortex will pull him off walls and slow him to a crawl. And who else? Sombra. A hacked Lucio. Can't switch songs, can't amp it up, and most importantly, he can't wall ride. He's just a guy on the ground with a slow firing projectile weapon. On the support side, Mizuki is a great answer. One quick chain and he's done. Anna is also surprisingly good, not only because she can sleep him, but because the anti-nade can regularly disable a lot of his value. The overall strategy is just to lock him down with CC. Once he's standing still, he's incredibly easy to kill. You just need to track his amp it up cool down. When he uses it for a burst of speed or healing, that's when his team is strongest. Disengage, wait for it to end, and then re-engage when he can't give his team that extra boost. Next up, the support who's been the number one target priority since 2016. Resurrect and pocketing are Mercy's biggest problems. Rez is one of the most powerful abilities in Overwatch because it completely undoes a kill. On top of that, her guardian angel makes her incredibly mobile and hard to pin down as long as she has a teammate to fly to. Her damage boost and single target healing allow her to pocket a good player, turning them into a monster. But thankfully, all of this has a pretty easy solution. The solution is simple and has been the same since the game launched. Kill Mercy first. It has to be your number one priority. Her sustained healing, damage boost, and the threat of resurrect make her too valuable to leave alive. Dive tanks are your best bet. Winston, Div.A, Doom. They can all chase her down relentlessly, forcing her to use Guardian Angel defensively until she has nowhere left to run. Hit scan DPS or supports like Cassidy and Soldier 76 or Anna and Baptiste are great for shooting her out of the sky. Soldier 76's ultimate is especially good because it counters Valkyrie. And flankers like Sombra and Tracer can sneak into the backline and assassinate her when she's isolated. The most important counterplay, though, is punishing the resurrect. It has a long cast time where she moves super slow and is completely vulnerable. A common tactic is to camp the body. When you kill an enemy, don't just walk away. Stay near that glowing orb and wait. You know that Mercy is going to try to get greedy and go for the res. The moment she starts the animation, you throw out all your damage, and it's one of the easiest kills you'll ever get. The green pancake of protect your friends is one of the most visually offensive alts in Overwatch, but I've never heard anyone say, "Man, we just have to counter that Mizuki." So, I guess that's something. The problem with Mizuki is his soft CC and his ultimate. Getting chained at the wrong time will completely shut you down and makes him very good at protecting the backline. His ultimate counters numerous ultimates and invites the enemy team into close quarters where he wants to fight anyway. The best way to counter Mizuki is to be patient. Force him to waste his cooldowns before you commit. Mizuki thrives on reactive play. He wants you to jump his support so he can tether you. To beat them, you have to bait out the binding chain. Once the chain is on cooldown, his ability to heal for his teammates is cut in half. High mobility heroes like Tracer or Ekko can dart in to draw the chain out and then immediately blink or fly away, leaving Mizuki vulnerable for a follow-up. When it comes to the ultimate, the worst thing you can do is stand inside it and try to out brawl him. The ultimate provides healing and stops your team from assisting you if they stay outside, so don't feed into it. But if you are going to go in, make sure your whole team goes in. The ult isn't a transcendence, and the healing advantage it gives is only slight. Anna is the hardest counter here. A wellplaced biotic grenade inside his ultimate turns his safe zone into a death trap. It'll negate the passive healing his team was relying on to survive the engagement. Nade will also shut down his passive healing consistently, so Anna is a pretty good choice. For tanks, I think Orisa is a surprisingly good pick. She can break the chain with her fortify and is very survivable. This helps since Mizuki is often played in brawl comps that want to roll over you. Lifew Weaver is also a bit of a sleeper pick here. Being able to life grip your teammates out of the chain is pretty clutch. The last big piece of countering him is really just about waiting for him to ult if your ult would be countered by his. Then I suppose you have some situations where a hyperaggressive Mizuki on the enemy team is constantly using Katoshiro return to farm your backline. If that's the case, CC is always going to be the way to go there. Now, let me tell you about a scenario all my Genji mains will understand. You're on low health. You dash out of the enemy backline thinking you've escaped, but then a purple orb bounces around the corner and finishes you off. This is the sort of stuff that keeps me up at night. The problem with Moira is her incredible survivability. Her self-heal from biotic grasp and her fade ability make her one of the hardest supports to kill in a duel. She thrives in chaotic brawly fights where her orbs and sprays can hit multiple targets. The solution revolves around two things: resource denial and anti-heal. Her biggest hard counter is Div.A's defense matrix. It can absorb her orbs completely removing them from the game. A good div.a can just follow Moira around, eat every single orb she throws, cutting her overall effectiveness in half. She can also chase her down when she tries to escape with vade. The best tool against her in general is Anna's vi grenade. A Moira who can't heal herself is very very killable and a Moira who can't heal her team is essentially useless. Also, Moira at the top tiers of play is all about farming her ultimate and Anna's nade will shut down half that ultimate. For everyone else though, the key is baiting out her fade. It's her only escape tool. Pressure her, force her to use it, and then pounce on her during the cool down. Burst damage is also key. Heroes like Reaper can get in close and deal enough damage to kill her before her self-healing can catch up. Road Hog can hook her once her fade is used and instantly delete her. She's a bit of a dualist, but she's not unbeatable. Just deny her resources and punish her cool downs. If you're losing to a Tik Tok DPS Moira in your backline, though, a YouTube video is not going to fix that. But focus her down, ask your team for help, and maybe go someone with some more survivability. Water Boy has been in the game for a bit now, and truthfully, I hardly see anyone play him. But a good Wooang will constantly be jumping around in your backline, causing problems or poking you down from a distance, blowing you up around corners. Wu Yang's biggest threat is his great damage and mobility. The knock back is annoying, sure, but those two things are the real problems. His cooldowns are rather long, so again, just like nearly every other support, the game is about baiting resources and punishing. You'll generally be looking for high mobility heroes who can keep up with him when he tries to escape. Your Winston's, Divas, Tracers, Genji's, Lucios, things like that. Burst and AoE damage are also great because he has no way to mitigate damage and his healing is single target and tied to a resource meter. This makes Junkrat and Farah pretty solid as well. Far especially since hitting her in the air can be rather difficult with the water orbs. The strategy is pretty simple though. Bait the rushing torrent, hard engage, and don't let up. Wu Yang wants to play a game of cat-and- mouse from a distance. And if you force him into a close quarters brawl, he'll try to escape, but if you can follow, there's not a lot he can do about it. Now, we have a support who's more of a DPS with a side hustle and healing. Discord orb is one of the strongest, most matched defining abilities in all of Overwatch. It's the bane of any tank player and the universal signal of kill this person first for any dive team. The problem with the Zenyatta is that orb of discord. It's one of the best damage enabling abilities in the game. It makes any target take a lot more damage, which allows his team to melt tanks and squishies. He turns every fight into a race to see who can get a pick first, and he gives his team a huge advantage. The solution is to recognize Zenyatta for what he is, an easy target with no mobility, a glass cannon. His biggest weakness is his complete lack of movement options. He moves slowly, he has no escape abilities, and his hitbox isn't exactly small. This makes him the easiest target in the world for any hero with mobility. Dive him relentlessly. Diva, Winston, Wrecking Ball, Doomfist, Hazard, all of them can close the distance and eliminate him before he knows what's happening. Flankers like Sombra, Tracer, and Genji were basically designed to make Zenyatta's life miserable. They can get into the backline undetected and assassinate him with ease. Even snipers like Widowmaker, or Hanzo have an easy time with him because his movement is so slow and predictable. As for his ultimate, while it provides massive healing, it can be completely negated by a well-timed biotic grenade or Junker Queen ultimate. It also doesn't stop one-shot burst damage. So, D.Va Bomb or Rip Tire can still kill his team right through it. So, just like Mercy, the answer is to focus him first. He's a floating footstep free target just waiting to be picked off. And please, for the love of God, if you have the Discord on you, duck behind some cover until you drop it and then do your thing. Thanks for watching and subscribe.