Thank you so much for attending my PowerPoint presentation on how to counter every damage hero in OverWatch. Playing against a good DPS player can feel miserable, but I'm here to tell you that no DPS is unkillable. Every single one has a weakness, a strategy that just makes their whole plan fall apart. And in today's video, I'm going to give you that strategy. I'm going to tell you exactly how to shut down every single DPS hero in the game. Let's start with Onryo. You're just chilling in your back line trying to kill your tank and suddenly you're on fire. And then Onryo's doing some kind of anime dance that dodges all your shots and then you're dead. Oh, and if you do manage to kill her, she just revives herself in a fiery explosion. It's a ton of fun to play against. The problem with Onryo is that she dives in and suddenly you're on fire and then ignition damage stacks up really fast. The solution is to either survive that initial burst or just stop her mid-dash with some kind of crowd control before she can really get her combo off. You have to bait out her dashes. Once she uses them, she's a lot more vulnerable. For hero picks, you're looking at Zarya on tank. Her bubbles will actually cleanse Onryo's fire and if you time them well, you can stop your team from being set on fire to begin with. For DPS, Cassidy's nade will actually stop her in her tracks and he's probably the best counter in the game. Reaper can burst her down between her cool downs and Torbjörn's turret will track her no matter how fast she's moving. But Kiriko might just be the best pick. A single suzu will cleanse all the burn damage and her whole plan just kind of falls apart. I also think that any hero that does AoE healing is pretty good because Onryo really wants to set your whole team on fire. If you're grouped up together, that's when she thrives. So, any AoE healing will really kind of negate her damage. Ashe is constantly annoying you from high ground that you can't reach, chucking dynamite onto your team, and then when you finally get close, she just kind of blasts you away with her shotgun. Ashe's problem is that she fights at that perfect mid-range. She's too far away to brawl up close, but not far enough away to be a true sniper. So, you have to force her into one of those fights. You either need to get right in her face, or you need to outrange her completely. The main thing is though to bait out her coach gun. That's her only real escape, and it has a pretty long cool down. So, once it's gone, she has no way to get away. Dive tanks are her absolute worst nightmare. A Winston or a D.Va can just jump on her and give her no room to breathe. D.Va's defense matrix is especially good because it just deletes her dynamite. Genji and Tracer are great because they can flank and force her into a close-range fight, the one that she hates, or you can just pick Widowmaker and win the long-range duel. Zenyatta is also a sleeper pick because you can charge up a volley of orbs, peek around the corner, instantly delete her, and duck back behind cover. And for her ultimate, Bob really doesn't have that much health. If your whole team focuses him, he'll probably just die before he can really do anything. You can also sleep guard him if you're on Ana. So, he's really not that much of a threat. Just don't let him run into you and knock you up into the air cuz then you're pretty much dead no matter what. The number one rule for fighting Bastion is to track his one big cool down. He can only go into tank form for a little while. Once it's over, there's this big window where he's just a big slow target with a giant head hit box. That is your moment to strike. You have to bait that ability out. All of the danger comes from that single ability. When he's in that form, there's also a giant weak spot on his back. So, even then, he's really not all that much of a threat. Any heroes that can just stand in front of him and absorb that damage are god tier against Bastion. Sigma can eat all of it with his kinetic grasp. D.Va can nullify it completely with defense matrix. Ramattra isn't terrible because he can hold block the entire time. You're really looking for heroes that are not going to fold instantly whenever he shifts into his turret form. Genji is the classic counter. You just press deflect, and honestly, half the time he kills himself with it. If Bastion's really giving you a problem, the classic way to deal with him is to dive him. You want to put a Zenyatta orb on him or a sleep him or anti him and then just jump him. You want something like a Lucio to speed you in so that he gets overwhelmed. The idea is to jump on him and just instantly delete him cuz he has basically no mobility. If you want to avoid dying to his alt, you really need to make sure that you're on a hero with some mobility. That's again why dive is such a good counter to him cuz it completely shuts down his ultimate. So, the plan is simple. Wait for the turret form to end and then pounce. But, speaking of heroes that are easy to pounce on, Cassidy's biggest weakness is that he just can't move. His combat roll barely covers any distance and he has no vertical momentum at all. This makes him very vulnerable. The solution is to either outrange him or catch him out of position. He's deadly at mid-range and up close, but his damage falls off hard at a distance. This is why long-range snipers like Widowmaker and Ashe completely shut him down. They can pick him off from a distance where he can't really fight back. Roadhog also can be a tough match-up for him because a good chain hook pulls him into a bad spot and sets up a one-shot combo and he has no way to get out of that. And his ultimate is a joke at this point. Let's be real. It's basically a suicide button. When he presses it, he dies like 90% of the time. Again, that's why Roadhog is so good into Cassidy is because he can hook him out of his ultimate. It's a direct counter. He's just an easy target for a hook, a stun, or a headshot. The best supports against him are going to be characters like Anna because she can sleep him out of his ultimate. She can also outrange him or Mizuki because he can pop his ultimate in an answer to Cassidy's ultimate. If you want to try and dive Cass and sort of play the close-range fight with him with someone like Genji or Reaper, it's really going to come down to a skill match-up. People go back and forth who has the advantage, but it's really can you dodge his initial grenade throw? And if you do, you win. Echo is a hero that can feel like she's just everywhere at once. She's flying above you, sticking bombs to your face, and then laser beaming you to death, and it does like a million damage. And when you finally think you've cornered her, she just turns into your own tank and then uses their ultimate on you twice. Her flight is what makes her so dangerous. She's basically silent, but it's also her biggest weakness. When she's up in the open sky, she's a predictable target for any hitscan hero. And that's the solution. Punish her for being in the air. Hitscan heroes are her absolute nemesis. Cassidy, Ashe, Soldier: 76, Emre, they can all reliably shoot her out of the air. Sombra is a hard counter because a hack completely disables all of her cooldowns, which she's very heavily reliant on. For tanks, D.Va is a surprisingly good counter. While the beam does go through defense matrix, D.Va can also just eat all of the sticky bombs and fly directly at her and blow her up with micro missiles. The main thing with Echo is to deny her combos. She wants to stick you with those bombs and then finish you with her focusing beam while you're below half health. So, if you can just block or cleanse those bombs, her whole plan pretty much falls apart. Kiriko's suzu is perfect for this. It just cleanses the bombs right off your teammate and will deny her all of that ultimate charge, even if she wasn't going to come in for a kill. As for Echo's ultimate, you just have to focus her. There's really no other answer. If you don't focus her, she's almost guaranteed to get whatever ultimate she's chosen, and that'll almost always turn the fight. So, you need to make sure, as soon as you hear her ult, that you focus her as a team and shut down that ultimate. Emre is a hero who feels like he can do a little bit of everything. He's shooting you from mid-range, and then he's jumping on you with a life-steal blaster, and then he's flying around with a cannon. It can be hard to pin him down and really even know what he's trying to do at any given moment other than kill you. But, that's his weakness. He can kind of do everything, but he isn't the best at any of it. His damage is lower than a dedicated ranged hero like Soldier, and his close-range survivability is completely tied to his Siphon Blaster, which is on a pretty long cool down. The solution is to wait for him to use that ability and then rush him down, or just outrange him completely. When his life steal is on cool down, he's very vulnerable. D.Va is a great counter because her defense matrix can just absorb his rifle and his grenades and his Siphon Blaster, shutting down the hero entirely. Plus, her mobility lets her pressure him constantly. Zarya is also really good against Emre because her beam can track him easily since he jumps in these very predictable arcs, and she can pop her bubbles to actually stop him from healing with Siphon Blaster. As for countering his ultimate, Mizuki is hands down the best counter in the entire game. As soon as Mizuki pops his ultimate, Emre is forced to just wait, and he'll burn nearly the entirety of his ultimate waiting. He'll get one or two shots off. So, if you are trying to counter Emre with Mizuki, be aware of that fact. Your ult lasts for a shorter time than Emre's ult does. If his ultimate is really causing you problems, any other hero that can shoot him while he's in the air, so hitscan heroes are going to shut him down completely. He has to play incredibly safe while using his ultimate if people can actually shoot him while he's using it. All right, let's go from a jack of all trades to a hero who is much more specialized. Freya is another one of those high skill ceiling, high mobility DPS that feels like she's playing a completely different game. She's zipping around, hitting shots from weird angles, and generally being a huge nuisance. Her biggest weakness is that she's bad at super long ranges or super close. She has a powerful mid-range kit, but she has a hard time against both close-range dive heroes who can overwhelm her and long-range hitscan heroes who can outduel her. The strategy is to force her out of that comfortable mid-range spot, very similar to an Ash. Bait out her mobility cool downs because those are her only escape tools. Once she's used them, you can collapse on her with a D.Va, Winston, Hanzo, Doomfist, all of them can delete her pretty easily. For damage, hitscan heroes like Ash or Soldier: 76 are great because they can pressure her outside of the distance she wants to fight at. As soon as a hero is too far away from Freya to reliably land shots on, she kind of falls apart. Conversely, at really close ranges, her arrows have a fuse on them. They explode only after a short delay. So, heroes who can delete her faster, like Genji or Reaper, can make quick work of her before she can actually do enough damage to kill them. On support, Moira is great for the exact same reason. Fade lets her escape those burst damage arrows, and her biotic grasp makes it very easy for her to track Freya's movements. You basically don't want to let Freya play her game. You want to force her to play yours. Oh, Genji. I shouldn't even be telling you guys how to counter me in comp, okay? I need to win more games. But, listen. Here's how you counter Genji, okay? The answer has been the same for years, and it still works. The trick is to use weapons that he can't deflect. Beam weapons and stuff that auto locks onto him just kind of deletes Genji. Winston is the classic Genji counter. His Tesla cannon goes right through deflect, and his jump pack lets him chase Genji down wherever he goes. Zarya's beam is great, and she can use her bubble to save her teammates from Genji's dives. Symmetra is another strong counter. Her turrets slow him down, making him easier to hit, and her primary fire just melts him. Moira for the exact same reason is super strong. Basically, you just want to hit him with damage that he can't deflect. The real trick, though, is to stack these damage types on your team. I play Genji all the time, and if there's just a Winston on the enemy team, I'll just shuriken right click him in the head and delete him. But, once you stack a Mei, a Zarya, a Moira, all shooting just me with their beam weapons, I don't want to play Genji anymore, and I'll swap off most of the time. If you're worried about Dragonblade, Zenyatta's ultimate Transcendence is the classic answer, but be careful because if Genji is nanoed while using blade, he can kill through Transcendence. And of course, Genji's a mobile hero. All mobile heroes get shut down by CC. All right, we are about a third of the way through this presentation. If you're enjoying it and you feel like you're learning something, go ahead and hit the subscribe button for me. It would mean the world to me, so I would really appreciate your support. Thanks and back to the video. All right, Genji can be pretty frustrating to play against, but let's talk about his brother who is somehow even more frustrating to play against. Getting killed by a random Hanzo arrow from across the map is a right of passage for an Overwatch player. It's a unique kind of pain. He just spams arrows down a hallway until one of them eventually finds your head. Because Hanzo's a projectile sniper, he has to lead his shots. This means if you're flying or moving around a lot, he's going to have a much harder time. And that's pretty much your solution. Get in his face and disrupt his aim. Dive heroes are the absolute bane of his existence. He has no real defensive abilities besides his lunge, so if you can get in close, he's in big trouble. Wrecking Ball, Hazard, and Doomfist are going to be my top picks here. I would warn you against playing Winston because frankly, Hanzo is pretty decent into Winston. He can use his storm arrows to burst the bubble and that often is enough to get Winston killed. For DPS, Pharah and Echo are fantastic counters. They can attack him from the sky, which is an angle that's incredibly difficult for Hanzo to deal with. Genji is also a pretty good counter because sometimes Hanzo will just kill himself with deflect. There's also the opportunity for Genji to deflect his ultimate back at him, which is pretty satisfying. As a support, Mercy is actually a decent pick against him. Her mobility makes her a hard target for him to hit. Her resurrect can undo one of his lucky headshots and she can apply a lot of her value from behind a wall safely. But in general, good positioning is always the best way to counter a sniper. Don't overexpose yourself when you don't have to. Never let a Hanzo sit back and spam. Force the fight on your terms. And speaking of spam, let's talk about the king of spam. Junkrat is all about chaos. He's lobbing grenades all over the place, putting traps down, one-shotting you, blowing you up with tires. I mean, it's ridiculous. But his biggest weakness is that he just can't do anything to people who are far away or in the air. Grenades are slow and they have an arc, making it almost impossible for him to hit a flying target. So, the solution is pretty simple. Play in open areas and attack from a distance. Never walk into small rooms and choke points. Do not fight him there. I watch low-rank players do this all the time. If they have a Junkrat, change your pathing. Pharah and Echo are his hardest counters. They can stay in the air, completely out of his reach, and just rain down damage on him. Long-range hitscan heroes are also fantastic. Widowmaker and Ashe just completely delete him. He has a pretty easy-to-hit head hitbox, so any kind of long-range hitscan is going to do work against Junkrat. For tanks, Zarya is the classic pick. She can just walk into his grenades with her bubble, get a ton of charge for free, and then melt his team. Any tank hero with clear damage mitigation, like D.Va's Defense Matrix, Sigma's suck, or Ramattra's block, are all going to be good into Junkrat. Just avoid going tank heroes that rely on shields for damage mitigation, because Junkrat is really good at destroying shields. For supports, Kiriko's suzu and Baptiste's immortality field are going to be your best friends here. They can save people from the steel trap, and they can also save people from his tire. Mei is a fantastic duelist up close, but she has very little mobility and she struggles against mid-range pressure. The solution is to fight her in open spaces where you can stay outside the range of her primary fire. Don't let her get close. I also want to warn you against playing someone who plays from really far away. Somebody like Ashe or Widowmaker can easily be spammed out by her secondary fire. Pharah is one of her best counters for this reason. She plays at mid-range and she can stay in the air where May has a really hard time hitting her with icicles or hitting her with her primary fire. On tank, Orisa is a great pick. Her Fortify makes her completely immune to May's slowing and freezing effects so she can just walk right through a Blizzard without a care in the world. She's also survivable enough that if she gets walled off, she's not going to get blown up instantly. You really want to play a hero who can escape being walled off. So, if something like Doomfist or Hazard is especially good because he can just climb back over the wall. Kiriko is her single best counter in the entire game. Her Protection Suzu just makes May's entire kit useless. It instantly cleanses the slow and freeze from her entire team, which can completely nullify Blizzard. The main thing is to bait out her defensive cooldowns. Once she uses Cryo Freeze and Ice Wall, she's very vulnerable. Pharah's biggest weakness is, of course, hitscan. It's a shocker, I know, but it's true. When she's flying, she's actually a pretty slow, easy-to-hit target for anyone with decent aim. That's the solution. You just have to pick heroes who can reliably shoot her out of the sky and you don't even have to kill her. Just constantly putting out pressure in her direction is enough to stop her from playing her game. Widowmaker, Cassidy, Soldier: 76, Ashe, McCree, they are all definitive counters to her. They can all hit her from a safe distance. I will warn you though, if she has the Mercy pocket, you need to target the Mercy first. You will never kill the Pharah while she has the Mercy pocket unless you have your own Mercy pocket. So, target the Mercy first. For tanks, D.Va is the best pick. She can use her boosters to fly right up into Pharah's face, absorb her rockets with Defense Matrix, and blow her up with missiles. It's a pretty simple formula. For supports, Ana and Baptiste are great because they can both hit her with their hitscan weapons to help pressure her. Ana's sleep dart is especially nasty because you can land it on a flying Pharah above a pit and she'll fall into it and die, which is just so much fun to do. When she uses her ultimate Barrage, she can actually move around a little bit now, but it really doesn't change the ways to counter it that much. D.Va's defense matrix, a well-timed sleep dart, a shield, basically anything will counter this ultimate. It's a high-risk play and it often just turns into a free kill if you're ready for it. Key thing to remember is you don't have to kill Pharah. You just have to put enough pressure on her to stop her from doing what she wants. Reaper's power is all close range. His shotguns have massive damage falloff, making him almost useless at mid to long range. He does have dire triggers now, which gives him a little bit of help at medium range, but the solution is the same. Keep him at a distance. Don't let him get close to you. Watch him. Pay attention. Don't let him teleport around for free. You should always know where the Reaper is at and be ready to do something about it when he inevitably walks into your back line. Pharah and Echo are strong counters because they can stay in the air way outside of his effective range. A tank counter to Reaper almost feels like an oxymoron because his whole thing is killing tanks, but in general, you want to play tanks with smaller hit boxes like Junker Queen, who he's not going to be able to delete instantly, or heroes that can sort of hold their own against him. I personally really like Sigma into Reaper. Yes, he doesn't have any mobility, but he can sort of take the fight with Reaper. He can use his suck to absorb Reaper's damage. He can rock him when he tries to get close. If he dodges the rock with his wraith form, that's his best cool down gone. But the most important thing is to have a way to stop his death blossom, and that's another reason why I like Sigma. The rock will do that. Any stun or knockback will do. Ana's sleep dart, Brig's whip shot, anything that can stop your team from being chewed up by the Beyblade, okay? That's the main thing you have to worry about. So, keep him at a distance and make sure you have an answer for his ultimate. Sojourn just got added to Overwatch, and that's the reason that I delayed this video so long. I wanted to play her a ton and play against her a ton so I could give you some solid counters for her. Her main weakness is that she's got to be able to see you. Her tracking shot only works if she can see you, so the solution is to constantly use natural cover to break her lock on. Her win rate dramatically falls off the higher you climb the ranks because people stop standing out in the open or walking through obvious chokes. As soon as you get hit with a tracking shot, you need to step behind cover. If you're too far away from cover to instantly step behind it, your positioning is bad. You also want to be really careful about walking down natural sight lines. Because she's a projectile character, she doesn't have any fall off and she can spam down chokes and if you walk into that spam, you're going to take a ton of damage. Another thing about Symmetra is you have to shoot her drone. If you destroy Dorothy, her mobility is gone and she's much easier to pin down. Mobile tank heroes like D.Va and Winston are great for closing the distance and pressuring her. In fact, I think D.Va might just be the hardest counter in the entire game to her. She can eat her regular damage, she can eat her tracking shot, she can eat her grenade, and she can eat the bombs that come out of her ultimate. It feels impossible to actually get anything done on Symmetra when you fight against a good D.Va. And Sigma is very similar for the same exact reasons. His shield will block all of her damage and then he can use his suck to absorb all of her damage and then you get rocked and you're dead. There's really not a lot she can do against D.Va and Sigma and those would be my number one counters to her. For DPS, mobile heroes with high damage like Genji and Sojourn can duel her effectively. Genji's deflect is particularly good against her tracking shot. Hitscan heroes like Cassidy and Soldier can also put a lot of pressure on her from range. I would avoid playing anyone who wants to play from very far away like Ashe or Widowmaker because again, she can spam down those sight lines and make it really hard for you to actually have an opportunity to take shots at her. Reaper is another strong counter because as soon as you get close, there's not a lot she can do to get away from you as long as she doesn't have her drone up. On support, you're looking for someone like Kiriko or Baptiste who can use a cool down to save their team who have been stuck with the tracking shot. Her ultimate doesn't give you a lot of time to react and if you don't have some of these other counters, she'll be able to farm it super fast, so you need to have an answer for it. It's really difficult to actually counter the ultimate itself because you can't destroy the drone. You have to eat the bombs that come out of it. So, the best thing to do is to play mobile heroes who can quickly get out of the explosion radius. Then, of course, don't path into enclosed tight spaces. Avoid those when she has her ultimate cuz then you're going to be sitting ducks. A good Sojourn is terrifying. She'll completely dominate the game if you let her. You're dead from a rail gun shot halfway across the map that you never even saw coming. Sojourn has an incredibly high skill ceiling and her main vulnerability is to dive comps that can close the distance and pressure her. That's really the only strategy you have. You have to force her to use power slide defensively. Then, you can deny her the chance to take high ground positions and her effectiveness drops a lot. Dive tanks like Winston and D.Va are perfect for this. They can jump on her, block her shots with their barriers or defense matrix, and force her to retreat. Widowmaker can be a good counter on maps with long sight lines since she can outrange Sojourn and kill her with a single headshot. Tracer is also good because of her unpredictable movements. It makes her a very difficult target for Sojourn to hit. For supports, Lucio is a great pick. His speed boost can help your whole team get close to close the distance on her and he's really fast, which makes it hard for her to shoot him as well. You basically have to suffocate her out of the game. Don't give her space and be very careful when she has rail. Lower ranked players love to pick the Sojourn when she has rail up. You need to be paying attention at all times to if she has rail or not. Sojourn might be the most straightforward hero in Overwatch. He's reliable, he's easy to understand, and he's everywhere. He's always on some high ground or behind you shooting at you, healing himself, and then when he gets tired of aiming, he just presses Q for his legal aimbot. His main weakness though is that he's an all-rounder. He's solid, but he can be out-dueled by any hero who specializes in either close-range or long-range combat. He also has no vertical mobility outside of rocket jumping, which makes him vulnerable to heroes who can easily take the high ground from him. The solution is to pressure him and displace him. Doomfist and Wrecking Ball are god-tier at this. They can push him around and do enough burst damage to delete him before he can get any use out of his legs or his healing station. For DPS heroes, snipers like Widowmaker and Ashe can outrange him and make it hard for him to contest sidelines on open maps. And for supports, Lucio can use his speed boost to help your team just run over him before he can deal significant damage. Mizuki is also great because he can use his ultimate to completely counter Soldier's ultimate. He's a solid hero, but he breaks under specialized pressure. The thing you really have to watch out for with Soldier is if he's going on a ton of flanks, shooting you from angles you don't expect. You really have to pay attention to him, similar to a Reaper. Getting hacked in the middle of a fight is one of the most tilting things in the entire game. You're about to use a crucial ability, and suddenly you're hacked and you can't do anything. You're taking extra damage, and there's an invisible woman shooting you in the back. Sombra's biggest weakness is that she doesn't do a lot of damage on her own though, and she's really easy to stop while she's hacking. Any amount of damage will interrupt her hack animation. So, the solution is to constantly spy check and use heroes that can deal consistent, hard-to-avoid damage. Winston is good for this. His Tesla Cannon has a wide beam that can easily hit her and stop her hack. D.Va is the go-to checker because she has infinite ammo, and she can just sort of spray everywhere and hope to hit the Sombra. For DPS heroes, Hanzo is a strong counter because his Sonic Arrow can reveal her even if she's invisible. Junkrat's random grenades and traps can also accidentally catch her out of stealth. A great support pick is Moira. She can easily fade the hack and out-duel the Sombra, forcing her to teleport out. Another thing you can do is just play heroes who don't care about being hacked. If getting hacked doesn't completely shut you down, she loses a lot of her value. So, playing heroes whose ultimates don't get shut down by hack, and playing heroes who rely more so on their primary and secondary fire than actually using abilities. If you and your team just keep an eye out for her, she becomes a lot less scary. But, our next hero wants you to look right at her. Symmetra's main weaknesses are that she's squishy, she's slow, and her beam has super short range. She is vulnerable to anyone who can destroy her turrets from a distance and fight her from outside her beam's range. The solution is to destroy her nest before you engage. Winston is the classic counter. His Tesla Cannon can destroy all three of her sentry turrets at the same time, and his bubble lets him safely fight her up close. Pharah is a great counter because she can stay in the air safely out of range and destroy Symmetra's turrets with splash damage from her rockets. For supports, Wu Yang and Baptiste are excellent against Symmetra because they can shoot her from a distance, and there's not really anything she can do about it. The only thing you have to be careful with for Symmetra is to pay attention to her teleporter. Don't let her and her team teleport to some wacky place you're not expecting and get overrun in the blink of an eye. Break Symmetra's toys, and she really isn't much of a threat. But, speaking of heroes with toys, Torbjörn is the kind of hero that can win a fight without even being there. He's way less effective without his turret, though, and that's his main weakness. The solution is to destroy his turret from a safe distance. He has a surprisingly large hit box for his size and no real mobility outside of his overload cool down, which just lets him run a little faster. So, he's an easy target once his turret's gone. Any long-range hero works well. Widowmaker is great at just picking off his turret from across the map. Sombra can hack the turret, making it useless. Junkrat can use his arcing grenades to destroy the turret from behind cover, where he can't even see him. For tanks, D.Va and Orisa are both really good at shooting his turret from a distance, and they can use their shields to block the damage. And for supports, anybody with burst healing or burst utility can let your team survive the turrets initial damage and focus it down. So, think Baptiste immortality field, Zuzu, even Moira's healing is often enough. Kill the turret first. It sounds super simple because it is. Tracer's greatest weakness is her tiny health pool. It's the lowest in the game. This makes her vulnerable to any kind of crowd control or burst damage that can kill her before she can recall. And that's the solution. You have to lock her down. Abilities that restrict her movement or track her automatically are the biggest counters. Torbjörn is the classic counter because his auto aim turret completely negates her mobility advantage. Symmetra sentry turrets are also great because their slow effect makes Tracer a much easier target. Cassidy's flash bang can lock her down for an easy kill. For tanks, Roadhog is a threat if he can land a chain hook, which is a guaranteed kill. And for supports, Moira is strong because her biotic grasp can easily track Tracer's movements. And Brig is also an excellent counter to her. She was literally designed to counter Tracer pretty much. Her shield bash lets her do some damage to her, and the whip shot will knock her away. Plus, she has AoE healing, which helps protect your team. And she has armor, which makes Tracer do less damage to her initially. All in all, Tracer at the top level is going to be a very lethal threat who also wants to be incredibly annoying. You want to play heroes who can survive her lethality. If you're playing Ana or Zen and you keep dying to Tracer, that's your fault. You should switch heroes to someone with more survivability. But similar to Sombra, the best way to counter a good Tracer is to mark her. And by mark her, I mean do a little bit of damage to her so she doesn't start the fight full health. This will force her to retreat much faster. But just remember, one good stun is all it takes to make Tracer's life miserable. Vendetta is the all-in hero. She's diving into your team with her giant sword, slicing and dicing, and her attacks just get faster and faster the more damage she does. And her ultimate just cuts through everything. Since she's the only one who primarily uses a sword, her biggest weakness is anyone who can shoot her from far away. The solution is to keep her at a distance and poke her down. Don't let her get close enough to start swinging. Her abilities have predictable animations and her main attack is actually pretty slow until she gets her onslaught passive stacked up. Crowd control is also fantastic because you can interrupt her dive and lock her down. Sigma is an effective tank counter. He can use his experimental barrier to control space and keep her away and his rock can stun her right out of her abilities. Cassidy is a super strong counter because his flashbang will hinder her mobility and make her an easy target. For supports, anyone with a knockback or stun like Lucio or Brig can disrupt her dive and create space for their team. Vendetta is trying to come in and at least get one kill before she dies. She often doesn't have an escape plan. So, just make sure you survive that dive and kill her. If you don't let her get into a rhythm, she's just a big target. Venture's biggest weakness is that they have to be at close range to do anything. This makes them vulnerable to heroes who can outrange them or attack them from the air. And that's pretty much the solution. Fight them in areas with open sightlines where they have nowhere to hide. Pharah and Echo are considered hard counters because they can just stay in the air where Venture can't reach them and attack for free. Sombra can hack them which disables their burrow and other abilities leaving them completely stranded. Mei is also effective as she can use her ice wall to block their path and slow them to prevent them from escaping. On support, anyone with a displacement ability like Lucio's boop or mobility can easily stay away from Venture. Again, you just don't want to play a hero like Anna or Zen who can't do anything when Venture comes in and does their damage. Force them into the open and their whole game plan will crumble. And finally, we get to talk about the one hero in Overwatch that just shouldn't be in the game. A good Widowmaker can completely control the map and a bad one still makes the game miserable to play. All her power comes from long sightlines. So, her biggest weakness is getting rushed down. She's vulnerable when you get in her face. The solution is to dive her and deny space. Don't let her get on a comfortable perch. This is why dive tanks are the ultimate Widowmaker counters. Winston, D.Va, Wrecking Ball, they can all use their mobility to jump right on top of her and eliminate her. Mobile flankers like Genji and Sombra are also great. Genji can deflect and she'll often just kill herself, while Sombra can use stealth to get behind her for an easy kill. On support, Lucio and his speed boost can allow you to dive with your tank and get to her much faster. The biggest threat to a Widowmaker is ironically a better Widowmaker though. So, if you're just god-tier at aiming, you'll often win the Widow duel. So, there you have it. A plan for every single DPS hero. Now, you have no more excuses. Thanks for watching and subscribe.