Thank you so much for attending my PowerPoint presentation on how to counter every tank in Overwatch. Learning how to counter the enemy tank is a fundamental skill in Overwatch. Countering the raid boss on the enemy team is one of the easiest ways to win more games. That's why in today's video, we're going to go over every single tank in the game, and I'm going to tell you exactly who to pick to make their lives miserable. Tank mains, I'm sorry. The problem with D.A. is she's a mobile tank with a personal black hole that just absorbs all incoming projectiles. So, the solution is to use stuff her defense matrix can't block. She's completely helpless against beams. Her whole defensive plan just goes right out the window. This is why everyone says Zarya is her hardest counter. Zarya's particle cannon beam goes right through the matrix. Symmetra is another top tier counter for the exact same reason. Her beam just ignores the matrix. May and Moira also can do the same thing. And there's really not a lot D.Va can do against these heroes. Another thing to exploit is her huge central crit box. The cockpit of her mech is a giant shoot me here sign. When she's firing her fusion cannons, her movement speed slows way down. It's a negative 30% penalty. This makes her an easy target. So high burst heroes like Reaper and Bastion can absolutely shred her through her health pool if you focus the crit box. Even Soldier, who she technically counters, can easily pop her out of the mech by shooting the crit box. Even other tanks like Roadhog can ruin her day by yanking her out of position with his chain hook. You just have to wait for her boosters to be on cooldown and then punish her. Mizuki is another great hero because his chain does not get eaten by defense matrix. So, he's a great hero to lock her down. The key is to pressure her with things that she can't eat. Beams, hooks, stuns make her life miserable until she's forced out of the mech. Trying to get past Domina's shield can feel a bit like trying to punch her way through a fortress while she just stands there spamming her photon magnum and crystal charges from complete safety. The real problem with Domina is that she is a pure poke tank. She wants to control the fight from a distance, hiding behind her huge barrier array. The solution is to just run her down. Seriously, that's it. Domina has absolutely zero mobility options and she has almost no health. But once you get past her big shield, she's just a large slow target. And she has a massive hitbox, especially with those trailing cybernetic arms. Her barrier array is on a long cooldown, so if you can bait it out or just bypass it, she's wide open. This is where dive and brawl heroes really shine. A Winston or a Doomfist can just leap right over her barrier and land on top of her in her supports. A Junker Queen or Mala can just run straight at her and force a fight she doesn't want to take. For damage heroes, flankers or burst heroes are her worst enemy. Reaper can get in close and melt her. Junkrat can blow her barrier apart. Venture can just drill right under her shield and pop up behind her. She's designed to keep you at arms length. So, the entire counterplay is to refuse to play her game. Get in her face. Even a Moira can just fade right through her shield and get in the backline and cause chaos. It's not one hero that necessarily counters Domina. The best way to counter her is just to get past her barrier and focus her down. run her down. Playing against a good Doomfist feels less like a shooter and more like a pinball machine where you're the pinball. He slams in from the sky, punches you into a wall, and you just get juggled around completely helplessly. The whole thing feels like he's styling on you more than trying to kill you. Doomfist is a super mobile tank. He creates pressure with all of these ability combos and gets overhealth from them so he can just keep going. The solution is to stop him. Any kind of crowd control is his kryptonite. Doomfist is all about fluid momentum. If you interrupt his combos, he's left stranded with a huge hitbox and no escape. Pretty much everyone agrees Sombra is his absolute worst nightmare. A single hack takes away all of his abilities, and that's what he relies on. No punch, no slam, no block. He just kind of dies. But he has plenty of other counters. Orisa is a great one because her fortify makes her immune to his stuns and being knocked around. And her energy javelin can stop him mid punch or block. Road Hog's chain hook can pull him right out of his engagement. Any stun, hack, slow, or sleep completely ruins his day. For supports, Anna is the monster counter. A welltimed sleep dart when he dives your backline is a death sentence for him. Brig is also fantastic for peeling. Her whip shot can boop him away and ruin his positioning. There's nothing worse as Doomfist than charging up a punch, letting it fly, and then getting booped in the wrong direction by Brigit and falling off the map. The whole strategy is to wait for him to commit to a dive and then punish him with CC. But that's the thing I see players miss a lot of the time. They go these heroes who have CC and are there to punish Doomfist, but then they don't wait for him to come in. They play the exact same way. So be patient, let him come in, use his cool downs, and then punish him and collapse on him. Hazard is like Doomfist, but somehow even deadlier. He leaps, he slashes, he shotguns you in the face, and you're dead before you can even process what happened. He just wants to get in your face with a sudden explosion of aggression. The problem with Hazard is that he's a brawl/dive tank who wants to get in your face and overwhelm you. So, the solution is to never let him get close in the first place. And everyone should pay attention to this segment because as I'm making this video, Hazard is very strong. He's a really underrated pick right now. His biggest weakness is that he has no real long range options. He has to get close to be a real threat. So, you can just poke him down before he ever gets there. Long range hit scan heroes are his biggest nightmare. A soldier 76, an Ash, a Widowmaker can just pepper him from across the map and he's forced to use his violent leap just to find cover, not to actually engage. You can make him burn his cooldowns defensively and then he pretty much loses all of his potential threat. Folk tanks like Sigma are great at controlling him from a distance, forcing him to respect sight lines he doesn't want to respect. If he does manage to get close, tanks like Mala or Orisa can often just straight up win the brawl against him, but the real pain for him comes from supports. Zenyan's orb of discord is devastating. It makes his dives super risky because he kind of has to allin. He'll just melt the second he's out in the open. And if he does commit to a fight, a wellplaced biotic grenade from Anna can shut him down completely, making him much easier to burst down. And again, similar to Doomfist, CC does work against Hazard, but it's less effective because of the way that he plays and his ability to use the wall to sort of block sightelines. Good Junker Queen can feel unkillable. All her survivability comes from her adrenaline rush passive. It heals her for all the wound damage that she does. The solution is pretty simple. You just have to turn off her healing. Heal effects are one of the single most effective ways to counter her. This makes Anna her number one counter. Biotic grenade and all of her other self-healing is gone. She just goes from this terrifying berserker to a pretty squishy tank. Her health pool isn't exactly big and without that healing, she dies pretty quick. Her ultimate rampage is also a huge source of anti-heal for her team, but it can be completely negated by a Kira Suzu. A single Suzu can cleanse the entire anti-heal and wound effect from your team, basically making her do nothing. Because she has no barrier, she's always vulnerable to longrange poke. Heroes like Far, Soldier, Cass can stay out of her effective range and just wear her down. May is also a great counter because her slow prevents Queen from getting into ax swinging range, and her ice wall can completely isolate her from her team, making her an easy kill. You just have to deny her the brawl that she so desperately wants, keeping her at a distance and cutting her off from her team and her healing. Orisa can spear her away. And if you do want to go toe-to-toe and brawl the Junker Queen, which I don't recommend, I think Zarya is a decent pick because you can use the bubbles to block the axe swings and cut off a lot of her healing. All right, that's five tanks down, only eight more to go. If you're enjoying this presentation, consider liking and subscribing. A how to counter every DPS video will be on the way and then we'll put all of the videos into a compilation so you can learn how to counter literally every single hero in Overwatch. But thanks for watching and on to the rest of the list. Mala has a really low skill floor and a really high skill ceiling. This can make him feel pretty difficult to counter at times. The problem with Mala is that he's a self-sustaining brawler. He has to be shooting all the time to survive. He gets his temp health from crits and uses cardiac overdrive for life steal. So the solution again is to deny that self- sustain and just shoot his absolutely massive hitbox. Like Junker Queen, Mala hates Anna's biotic grenade. In fact, any tank who relies on a lot of healing to live is going to hate Anna. It completely shuts down their healing. And for Mala, it completely shuts down his cardiac overdrive, making him very vulnerable. He has no shield, no matrix, nothing but raw health and healing to protect him. Take that away and he's just a huge slow target. Eva is another strong counter because her defense matrix can just eat a ton of his chain gun fire. If his bullets aren't hitting anything, he's not getting his berserker passive and he's not healing. You just have to make sure that you save your defense matrix for his cardiac overdrive. Sigma can do a similar job with his experimental barrier and kinetic grasp. And of course, you can always rock him. Junker Queen is another good tank option because she has a very small hitbox making it difficult for Mala to heal off of her. Mala's size is a real problem for him. It makes him an easy target for burst damage. This makes Reaper really good into Mala because he can just pop him in the head. I would not recommend going Bastion because even in Bastion's turret form, as long as Mala's getting a little bit of support, Ma's just going to heal off the Bastion and pretty much lose the duel. May is another good answer because Ma doesn't really have any way to escape once he's in. So, putting a wall behind him makes him a free kill. And of course, there's Zenyatta's orb of discord which will let you completely erase him. The key is to coordinate. When his cardiac overdrive is down or if he gets hit with an anti-heal, you have to focus him, and if you do, he'll just melt. His chain guns also have a pretty low effective range, so going a poke hero like Soldier or Mray makes him a pretty easy target to pick off. His name means mountain in Samoan, which is pretty fitting. He's big, he's slow, and you can wear him down. Rissa's whole thing is not dying. You bait out her javelin spin. You wait for a fortify to end. You start shooting her and her cooldowns are back up. She's spinning again. She's gold again. She just does not die. It feels like you're fighting a raid boss with a 5-second long damage phase. So, the problem is is that Orisa is a fortress when her defensive cooldowns are up, which is pretty much always. So, she just feels unkillable. The solution is to use weapons that her javelin spin can't block, which means beams. Javelin spin blocks incoming projectiles, but it does absolutely nothing against beam weapons. So, Zarya is a top tier counter. Div.A.'s decent because she can use her defense matrix to eat Orisa's projectiles and use her mobility to attack from different angles, bypassing the frontal defense of the spin. Sombra is a decent counter because you can shut down all of her cooldowns for a moment. And of course, Zenyatta's discord orb is fantastic for helping her team melt her the moment her cool downs are down. Anade can make it easier to burst through her health pool, but honestly, my best piece of advice for countering Orisa is to completely ignore the Orisa. Orisa can do decent damage, and some of her abilities are threatening, but for the most part, you're never going to kill the Orisa. A discord orb, an anti-nade, shooting her from above, getting behind her to not get blocked by the javelin spin, all of that is great. Even using Zarya's beam to try and melt through all of it does kind of work, but at the end of the day, what Orisa does is not die. So, trying to kill an Orisa is kind of just wasting your time. Instead, you should try and get around her and focus down the rest of her team. It's not that she's uncounterable, just the best way to play against an Orisa is not very often to focus the Orisa down and try to counter her specifically. Now, we have the first tempo tank of Overwatch. Listen, we got to make sure we never let the devs live that one down. Okay, it's a good joke. The problem with Raantra is that he switches between this longrange poke form and a close-range brawl. So, the solution is to counter his one constant weakness. He has no mobility. In his nemesis form, he's a menace, but he can be kited. In his omnic form, he's vulnerable to being dived on. The best way to deal with him is to abuse this. A Doomfist can just dive right past his front line to get on top of his supports, forcing Romatra to either turn around and peel or get isolated. Mobile flankers like Tracer and Sombra can do the same thing, getting to off angles where his void barrier isn't protecting anyone. Bar and Ekko are good options because they can fly in the air and he doesn't really have any way to deal with him. His shield's not really good enough to protect him from their damage either. As soon as Ramatro's shield or nemesis form are on cooldown, he's pretty easy to melt. He's rather squishy, so that means that something like a Bastion or Reaper can easily delete him. For supports, Anna's biotic grenade as usual is amazing to prevent him from being healed during his aggressive nemesis pushes or shutting down his ultimate. And in general, playing more mobile heroes is great because Ramatra's best tool is his ultimate annihilation. And if you play heroes who can escape its radius, he's basically going to do nothing. Countering Romantra is all about avoiding the brawl with him and stopping him from getting value from his nemesis form and ultimate. Reinhardt is like the tank, the original. He's the definition of a front line, and trying to break through can feel like running into a brick wall. Reinhardt is a powerful brawler who makes space for his team with his giant shield. So, the solution is to either break his shield or just ignore it completely. There are two main schools of thought. The first is shieldbreak. You pick high damage heroes and just focus all your fire on the barrier until it shatters. Bastion, Junkrat, Far, they're all fantastic. They can pour out so much damage from a safe distance that Ryan's shield just evaporates, leaving him and his team wide open. Mala is also great at this, just holding down both triggers until his shield is gone. The second more effective strategy is to just bypass his shield. Sombra is a hard counter because a single hack will disable his barrier entirely, leaving him completely defenseless. Ramatra's punches in his nemesis form go right through the shield so he can pressure Ryan directly, and Orisa can push him around and knock him around, really stopping him from doing anything. Any sort of mobile flanker that can go around him, shield breaking or just CCing the hell out of him are all good options. For supports, Anna can be a nightmare for him. She can wait for him to drop his shield to fire strike and then she can sleep dart or biotic nade him. Zenyatta's discord orb, Mizuki's chain, Brig bashing him away when he's trying to charge in. I mean, Reinhardt is not very hard to counter. It's a reason that he's always been considered not very good at the highest ranks. He just doesn't have very many options and there's a lot of ways to shut him down. If he can't get in close, he can't do anything. So, keeping your distance, breaking his shield, or ignoring him entirely and diving his backline, or CCing the hell out of him when he comes in, getting hooked by Road Hog is one of the worst feelings in all of Overwatch, especially when it feels like a BS hook. And the problem with Road Hog is that he's a self-sufficient tank. His whole game plan is built around landing that chain hook for a kill and using Take a Breather to heal himself. So, the solution is really to just deny his healing. If you do that, he's a giant walking ult battery for your team. Dog has no shields or barriers to protect his team. He just soaks damage and heals it back. This makes Anna his single hardest counter like in the entire game. One biotic grenade completely negates his Take a Breather. The key is to use it after he's already used Take a Breather though. This is the thing that a lot of lower ranked players miss. If you do a lot of damage to Hog and then nade him, the nade will fade and then he can heal up using his Take a Breather. And it's kind of like you never nated him to begin with. But if you do a lot of damage to him, wait for him to use his resource and then nade him, he'll be completely screwed. Barissa is great against Road Hog because her energy javelin can interrupt his healing channel, and she can also use fortify to just ignore the hook entirely. Sara is also a decent option because she can bubble herself for the hooks and she can bubble her teammates to save them from being hooked. He's so big and slow though, he's also vulnerable to tank busters like Reaper who could just walk up to him and shred his health pool using Wraith form to dodge the hook. Heroes that can stay out of hook range are also a big problem for him. Far, Ekko, Ash, they can all just stay really far away and shoot him from a distance where he can't possibly touch them. His entire kit is selfish, designed to keep himself alive. So, the counter is to use abilities that make that impossible. Sigma is a powerful poke tank. He's great at controlling space from mid-range, but he has absolutely zero mobility. The solution is to get right in his face. Force a close quarters fight that he just can't handle. Sigma hates being rushed down. While he's not helpless in a brawl, his hyperspheres are slow projectiles that can be really hard to hit on small, fastmoving targets up close. Dive tanks are his worst nightmare. A Winston or a Doomfist can just leap right over his experimental barrier and land on him and his backline. he has no way to escape. The key is to play a hero that actually has mobility. Zarya, while she could just walk through his barrier and pressure him, Sigma can just keep backing up, throwing his shield in front of her, and she'll never actually be able to do damage. You need to play heroes that can actually get on top of Sigma or past him. Sombra is again a powerful counter, especially because she can hack him out of his ultimate. Flankers like Genji and Tracer are nightmares for him to try and track with his slow projectiles. For supports, Lucio is fantastic because his speed boost allows your entire team to just run the Sigma down. Moira is also great using Fade to get past his shield and attack his supports directly. The whole game plan is to close the distance. Don't let him play his comfortable mid-range. Make him panic. I personally love playing May into Sigma. I think she's my favorite counter for him. You can wall him off from the rest of his team and he has no way to get over the wall. Her freeze goes through his kinetic grasp and you can always ice block to block the rock if you manage to get into a bad situation. Winston is another tank on this list that can be very difficult to counter because Winston's skill ceiling is so high. Even going heroes that counter Winston does not necessarily guarantee that you're going to be able to kill him. He's a super mobile tank who's great at diving and messing up your backline. The solution is to hit him with heroes that do huge close-up damage, the tank busters. Winston's Tesla cannon has very low damage output. He wins fights by isolating squishy targets, then he just outlasts them inside his bubble. He can't win a straightup damage race against high damage heroes. Reaper is the classic Winston counter for this reason. His shotguns can shred Winston's large hitbox in seconds. Bastion is another one. His turret form just melts Winston in his barrier. Roadhog is another hero who can ruin his dive by hooking him out of the air or bursting down his bubble. He's not designed to win 1v ons against other tanks or durable damage dealers. The strategy is to peel for whoever he dives. For supports, Anna can shut down his dive completely with a welltimed sleep dart or negate any healing he receives with a biotic grenade. And Brig is maybe the best anti-dive support in the game. Her shield bash and whip shot are perfect for knocking him away and from your other supports and keeping them safe. You need to punish his aggression. He has to commit to a dive and when he does, you have to be ready to collapse on him with overwhelming damage. Play a lot of Winston, so I can give you some firstirhand experience here. One counter will often not be enough. When I see somebody go Reaper, I am not afraid because I can dance in and out of my bubble and not die to the Reaper. But when you stack a Mala, a Reaper, a Bastion, an Anna, and I jump in and get deleted, I feel like I have to swap. So thing that's something to keep in mind. Wrecking Ball's whole game plan is built on extreme mobility and momentum. So, the solution is any kind of crowd control that stops him dead in his tracks. Wrecking Ball is completely useless if he can't move. A still ball is a dead ball. This makes Sombra his absolute hardest counter, similar to Doomfist. A single hack stops his roll, prevents him from using his grappling claw, and leaves him as a giant helpless target with no defensive abilities besides his shield. May is also incredibly effective as her primary fire slows him down, ruining his momentum. She can freeze him solid, too, with the perk. And she can also wall him off, blocking his path. Junkrat's steel trap can also just stop him in his tracks if he rolls over it. And the concussion mine can blast him away into unpredictable angles in spots he didn't want to be in. Road Hog's chain hook can pluck him right out of a swing. Orisa's energy javelin can halt his movement. She can even fortify to block him from rolling through. Her supports on a sleep dart is perfect for stopping a pile driver's endgage. And Brig is again amazing at peeling. Her shield bash and whip shot can disrupt his momentum and keep him from booping your team around. You have to lock him down. His job is to create chaos and your job is to enforce order with stuns, hacks, and traps. I do want to add here that similar to Orisa and kind of tanks in general, countering the wrecking ball is often a waste of time. He has so much health, he can easily get away even if you stun the hell out of him. So, it's more often better to just completely ignore him if he's not actively killing your team. If you go heroes that can withstand his dive, it's often much better to ignore him and try to attack his team. Wrecking Ball is just not that lethal on his own. Zarya is incredibly annoying to fight against. She's constantly saving her teammates, and more often than not, she's going to be full charge because your teammates are dumb. We all know it, okay? It's just how it goes. The problem is is that Zarya's power grows when she absorbs damage with her barriers, and your teammates love to shoot the barriers. The solution is to have good fire discipline. And you have to attack her from outside her effective range. Now, you can't control other people shooting her barrier. So, how do we counter her if she's going to be full charge all the time? She does have some major weaknesses. She has limited range and no mobility. She has to be in a mid-range brawl where people are constantly shooting her bubbles. If you have to fight her up close, Reinhardt and Sigma are actually pretty decent options. Sigma can constantly backpedal, throwing his shield in front of her to make sure she never does any real damage. And Reinhardt again has a giant shield that can block her from doing damage. By far the easiest way to counter Zarya is to wait for her to use one of her bubbles. Let her come in, let her use the second bubble, and when she pops the second bubble, have your entire team focus her down. Yes, you will feed her a ton of energy when you completely break that second bubble, but it doesn't matter if you kill her right after. So that's what the whole game plan really comes down to is you want to focus her down when she pops that second bubble because after that again she has no mobility so she's not going anywhere. She'll just get blown up. This is why Zenyatta is also great because his orb of discord will help your team burn through her health pool and Anna's nade can also shut that down so that once the bubble's broken her team can't heal her and bail her out. I also have to mention Winston here. Winston is a great counter to Zarya because he's so mobile, so he can avoid her entirely. And if he does happen to zap her bubble, it's not a big deal because he doesn't do that much damage. And because you're cleaving her whole team often at the same time, it really kind of evens out. You know, you are giving her charge, but you're doing so much damage to her team that it doesn't matter. Particle cannon is one of the few attacks that can damage an enemy through Genji's deflect and div.a's defense matrix. It's a powerful weapon, but only if you charge it for her. So, please stop shooting the bubbles. Thanks for watching and subscribe.